docs(blog): add daisy ui post (#4916)
refinedev/refine: documentation/blog/2023-09-06-daisy-ui-panel.md

The **refine** data hooks mentioned above are basically core hooks. Higher level hooks which are built top of these hooks exist, such as the [`useTable()`](https://refine.dev/docs/packages/documentation/react-table/#installation) hook provided by `@refinedev/react-table` support package that integrates [**React Table**](https://tanstack.com/table/v8/docs/api/core/table) with **refine** core. Higher level hooks adds additional features that increase development efficiency. For example, the `useList()` hook is employed by the `useTable()` hook that helps present data in a table using all the features of React Table. Similarly, the `useCreate()` core data hook is utilized inside the `useForm()` high level hook provided by the `@refinedev/react-hook-form` package which augments form related CRUD actions with [**React Hook Form**](https://react-hook-form.com/get-started).

### Resource Definitions

> **refine**'s resource definitions are specified inside the `resources` object. The `resources` object is passed to the `resources` prop of the `<Refine />` component. Resource definitions, in combination with route definitions, sets up a **refine** app's nav menu items, their navigation URLs as well as breadcrumbs and help infer the default resource name of a CRUD page along a route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource definitions, in combination with route definitions, set up a **refine** app's nav menu items, their navigation URLs, as well as breadcrumbs, and help infer the default resource name of a CRUD page along a route.
```

### Routing

> Routing in **refine** are supported by the `react-router-dom` package. **refine**`v4` supports explicit routing by delegating everything related to routing to the [**React Router**](https://reactrouter.com/en/main/start/overview) APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing in **refine** is supported by the `react-router-dom` package. **refine**`v4` supports explicit routing by delegating everything related to routing to the [**React Router**](https://reactrouter.com/en/main/start/overview) APIs.
```

Author: Thank you so much🙏

### Inferencer

> **refine**'s [**Inferencer**](https://refine.dev/docs/api-reference/core/components/inferencer/#usage) is a powerful tool for quickly scaffolding CRUD pages and automatically generating code for a resource page. The **Inferencer** works by first polling a particular API endpoint to get the shape of the data and then placing all the hooks and UI elements necessary to fetch and present the data in a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**refine**'s [**Inferencer**](https://refine.dev/docs/api-reference/core/components/inferencer/#usage) is a powerful tool for quickly scaffolding CRUD pages and automatically generating code for a resource page. The **Inferencer** works by first polling a particular API endpoint to get the shape of the data and then placing all the hooks and UI elements necessary to fetch and present the data on a page.
```

### UI Framework Integration

**refine**'s core package is designed to be "headless" which gives the freedom to integrate it with any UI component library or framework.

## What is daisyUI?

 <div className="centered-image">
   <img style={{alignSelf:"center"}}  src="https://refine.ams3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/2023-09-06-daisy-ui-panel/daisy-intro.png"  alt="react admin panel daisy ui" />
</div>

<br/>

> [**daisyUI**](https://daisyui.com) is an open source UI library built on top of [**TailwindCSS**](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation). It provides short, component oriented, semantic classes composed from regular longer Tailwind class strings that typically contribute to clumsy markup in an application. daisyUI hosts a growing collection of prestyled templates for components like buttons, menus and tabs with responsive, size, shape and color variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**daisyUI**](https://daisyui.com) is an open source UI library built on top of [**TailwindCSS**](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation). It provides short, component-oriented, semantic classes composed from regular, longer Tailwind class strings that typically contribute to clumsy markup in an application. daisyUI hosts a growing collection of prestyled templates for components like buttons, menus, and tabs with responsive size, shape, and color variants.
```

> Composing responsive, color, size and shape variant classes manually with the `@apply` directive is practically inefficient with plain TailwindCSS classes. daisyUI does this out-of-the-box. On top of that, these component styles can be overriden or extended with usual TailwindCSS utilities. As a result, daisyUI brings the convenience of using smaller class names, a smaller CSS file size, configurable number of variants as well as greater customization without compromising much of the code quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composing responsive, color, size, and shape variant classes manually with the `@apply` directive is practically inefficient with plain TailwindCSS classes. daisyUI does this out-of-the-box. On top of that, these component styles can be overridden or extended with the usual TailwindCSS utilities. As a result, daisyUI offers the convenience of using smaller class names, a smaller CSS file size, configurable number of variants, and greater customization without compromising much of the code quality.
```

                    dataProvider={dataProvider(
                        "https://api.finefoods.refine.dev",
                    )}
                    routerProvider={routerBindings}
                    options={{
                        syncWithLocation: true,
                        warnWhenUnsavedChanges: true,
                        projectId: "4kWrnz-AJZzOW-qq7MXL",
                    }}
                >
                    <Routes>
                        {/*highlight-start*/}
                        <Route
                            element={
                                <Layout>
                                    <Outlet />
                                </Layout>
                            }
                        >
                            <Route path="*" element={<ErrorComponent />} />
                        </Route>
                        {/*highlight-end*/}
                    </Routes>

                    <RefineKbar />
                    <UnsavedChangesNotifier />
                    <DocumentTitleHandler />
                </Refine>
            </RefineKbarProvider>
        </BrowserRouter>
    );
}

export default App;
```

> With these changes, we'll start fresh towards building the dashboard page first and then later move on to the CRUD pages for `products` and `categories` resources. At his point, we don't have any resources and their pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these changes, we'll start fresh towards building the dashboard page first and then later move on to the CRUD pages for `products` and `categories` resources. At this point, we don't have any resources or their pages.
```

Notice, we are now using the **Fine Foods** REST API in the `dataProvider` prop of `<Refine />`.

> The **Fine Foods** API is an example REST API hosted by **refine** with a collection of end points. In this app, we will be querying the `/dailyRevenue`, `/dailyOrders`, `/newCustomers` and `/orders` endpoints for fetching data for our dashboard page. Later on, we'll also be accessing its `/products` and `/catgories` enpoints for our resource pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Fine Foods** API is an example of the REST API hosted by **refine** with a collection of end points. In this app, we will be querying the `/dailyRevenue`, `/dailyOrders`, `/newCustomers` and `/orders` endpoints for fetching data for our dashboard page. Later on, we'll also be accessing its `/products` and `/catgories` endpoints for our resource pages.
```

### daisyUI Installation

> We are using daisyUI as our UI library. In order to integrate daisyUI to our **refine** app, we have to first perform a [ **Vite** installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/vite) of **TailwindCSS**, its dependencies and set up their configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using daisyUI as our UI library. In order to integrate daisyUI into our **refine** app, we have to first perform a [ **Vite** installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/vite) of **TailwindCSS**, its dependencies, and set up their configurations.
```

Go ahead an follow the below steps to first add TailwindCSS, PostCSS and Autoprefixer packages and then initialize `tailwind.config.js`:

> **Install TailwindCSS and Related Packages**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Install TailwindCSS and related packages**
```

If you need a hand with TailwindCSS installation, please follow [this guide for installing TailwindCSS with Vite](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/vite)

**Install and Setup daisyUI**

With TailwindCSS set up properly, it's now turn to install and configure daisyUI.

1. Install daisyUI with the following command:

```bash
npm install -D daisyui@latest
```

2.  And then add daisyUI as a plugin to `tailwind.config.js`. Extend the daisyUI `light` theme and update the `primary` color:

```tsx title="tailwind.config.js"
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
    content: ["./index.html", "./src/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}"],
    daisyui: {
        themes: [
            {
                light: {
                    ...require("daisyui/src/theming/themes")[
                        "[data-theme=light]"
                    ],
                    primary: "#0d89ec",
                },
            },
        ],
    },
    theme: {
        extend: {},
    },
    plugins: [require("daisyui")],
};
```

More details on customizing a daisyUI theme is available on the docs [here](https://daisyui.com/docs/themes/#-7)

> After these changes, with the server running, daisyUI watches for the use of daisyUI and TailwindCSS classes, and automatically compile updated styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After these changes, with the server running, daisyUI watches for the use of daisyUI and TailwindCSS classes, and automatically compiles updated styles.
```

        filters,
    });

    const { data: newCustomers } = useList<IChartDatum>({
        resource: "newCustomers",
        filters,
    });

    return (
        <>
            <Stats
                dailyRevenue={dailyRevenue}
                dailyOrders={dailyOrders}
                newCustomers={newCustomers}
            />
        </>
    );
};
```

</details>

Notice we are fetching data from three **Fine Foods** API end points: `/dailyRevenue`, `/dailyOrders` and `/newCustomers`. We are fetching them with the `useList()` **refine** core hook. We are querying them as resources although in our **refine** admin panel app they are not. The `filters` object is used to get the past 7 days' data.

You can find more details in the [**refine** `useList()` docs here](https://refine.dev/docs/api-reference/core/hooks/data/useList/).

With these changes, our dashboard page has three KPI cards displayed at the top:

 <div className="centered-image">
   <img style={{alignSelf:"center"}}  src="https://refine.ams3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/2023-09-06-daisy-ui-panel/kpi-cards.png"  alt="react admin panel daisy ui" />
</div>

<br/>

### Tab Components

> Now we want to display three charts inside a tabs panel below the KPI cards. So, we'll create the `<TabItem />`, `<TabPanel />` and `<TabView />` components inside the `src/components/dashboard` directory. We'll also create two chart components, one `<ResponsiveAreaChart />` and the other a `<ResponsiveBarChart />` to plot KPI data. Once all components are ready, we'll add the `<TabView />` component to `<Dashboard />`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we want to display three charts inside a tabs panel below the KPI cards. So, we'll create the `<TabItem />`, `<TabPanel />` and `<TabView />` components inside the `src/components/dashboard` directory. We'll also create two chart components, a `<ResponsiveAreaChart />` and a `<ResponsiveBarChart />` to plot KPI data. Once all components are ready, we'll add the `<TabView />` component to `<Dashboard />`.
```

};

export const TabView = ({ tabs }: TTabViewProps) => {
    const [activeTab, setActiveTab] = useState(0);
    return (
        <div className="mx-auto py-4 bg-slate-50 border rounded-lg drop-shadow-md">
            <div className="tabs">
                {tabs?.map((tab: TTab, index: number) => (
                    <TabItem
                        key={tab?.id}
                        label={tab?.label}
                        isActive={index === activeTab}
                        clickHandler={() => setActiveTab(index)}
                    />
                ))}
            </div>
            <div className="mx-auto">
                {tabs?.map((tab: TTab, index: number) => (
                    <TabPanel key={tab?.id} isActive={index === activeTab}>
                        {tab?.content}
                    </TabPanel>
                ))}
            </div>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

## Recharts Plots

With the tab components ready, we need to create three charts to be displayed inside `<TabView />` by mapping through the `tabs` object. We want to implement them using **Recharts**. One `<ResponsiveAreaChart />` and one `<ResponsiveBarChart />`.

> For plotting the data, `<ResonsiveAreaChart />` will use `<AreaChart />` APIs of the **Recharts** library and `<ResponsiveBarChart />` will use the `<BarChart />` APIs. They both will use `<ResponsiveContainer />` for responsiveness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For plotting the data, <ResponsiveAreaChart />` will use the `<AreaChart />` APIs of the **Recharts** library and `<ResponsiveBarChart />` will use the `<BarChart />` APIs. They both will use `<ResponsiveContainer />` for responsiveness.
```

                    }}
                />
                <YAxis
                    tickCount={13}
                    tick={{
                        stroke: "light-grey",
                        strokeWidth: 0.5,
                        fontSize: "12px",
                    }}
                    interval="preserveStartEnd"
                    domain={[0, "dataMax + 10"]}
                />
                <Tooltip
                    content={<ChartTooltip kpi={kpi} colors={colors} />}
                    wrapperStyle={{
                        backgroundColor: "rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.7)",
                        border: "0 solid #000",
                        borderRadius: "10px",
                    }}
                />
                <Area
                    type="monotone"
                    dataKey="value"
                    stroke={colors?.stroke}
                    strokeWidth={3}
                    fill={colors?.fill}
                    dot={{
                        stroke: colors?.stroke,
                        strokeWidth: 3,
                    }}
                />
            </AreaChart>
        </ResponsiveContainer>
    );
};
```

</details>

> Inside `<ResponsiveAreaChart />` we are receiving the `data` along with other props and relaying to `<AreaChart />` with its `data={data}` prop. We are using `<XAxis />`, `<YAxis />` for ticks and axes label. We are drawing the area and monotonic line with `<Area />` component and its props. `<CartesianGrid />` draws a grid in the background. We also have a custom tooltip shown inside `<ToolTip />`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside `<ResponsiveAreaChart />` we are receiving the `data` along with other props and relaying it to `<AreaChart />` with its `data={data}` prop. We are using `<XAxis />`, `<YAxis />` for ticks and axes labels. We are drawing the area and monotonic line with `<Area />` component and its props. `<CartesianGrid />` draws a grid in the background. We also have a custom tooltip shown inside `<ToolTip />`.
```

                style={tooltipStyle}
            >
                <div
                    style={{
                        position: "absolute",
                        width: "0",
                        height: "0",
                        borderTop: "10px solid transparent",
                        borderBottom: "10px solid transparent",
                        borderRight: "10px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.7)",
                        left: "-10px",
                    }}
                />
                <p className="flex text-xs font-semibold">{label}</p>
                <p className="text-xs">
                    <span
                        className="mr-1"
                        style={{
                            width: "0.5px",
                            height: "0.5px",
                            border: `1px solid ${colors?.stroke}`,
                            backgroundColor: colors?.fill,
                        }}
                    >
                        &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
                    </span>
                    {`${kpi}: ${dataPoint.value}`}
                </p>
            </div>
        );
    }

    return null;
};
```

</details>

> Now we have all the components for displaying `<TabView />` reday. So, we'll import and display it inside the dashboard below `<Stats />`. Let's update the `<Dashboard />` component with the below code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have all the components for displaying `<TabView />` ready. So, we'll import and display it inside the dashboard below `<Stats />`. Let's update the `<Dashboard />` component with the below code:
```

            ),
        },
        {
            id: 2,
            label: "Daily Orders",
            content: (
                <ResponsiveBarChart
                    kpi="Daily orders"
                    data={memoizedOrdersData}
                    colors={{
                        stroke: "rgb(255, 159, 64)",
                        fill: "rgba(255, 159, 64, 0.7)",
                    }}
                />
            ),
        },
        {
            id: 3,
            label: "New Customers",
            content: (
                <ResponsiveAreaChart
                    kpi="New customers"
                    data={memoizedNewCustomersData}
                    colors={{
                        stroke: "rgb(76, 175, 80)",
                        fill: "rgba(54, 162, 235, 0.2)",
                    }}
                />
            ),
        },
    ];
    //highlight-end

    return (
        <>
            <Stats
                dailyRevenue={dailyRevenue}
                dailyOrders={dailyOrders}
                newCustomers={newCustomers}
            />
            {/*highlight-next-line*/}
            <TabView tabs={tabs} />
        </>
    );
};
```

</details>

> Notice we are defining a `useMemoizedChartData()` hook to transform the fetched data and memoize them to make them chart ready. We are then setting the `tabs` object from the data, the charts and other properties. We eventually pass the `tabs` objec to the `<TabView />` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice we are defining a `useMemoizedChartData()` hook to transform the fetched data and memoize them to make them chart ready. We are then setting the `tabs` object from the data, the charts, and other properties. We eventually pass the `tabs` object to the `<TabView />` component.
```

                                            }[
                                                header?.column?.getIsSorted() as string
                                            ] ?? null}
                                        </div>
                                    </th>
                                ))}
                            </tr>
                        ))}
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        {getRowModel()?.rows?.map((row) => (
                            <tr key={row?.id}>
                                {row?.getVisibleCells()?.map((cell) => (
                                    <td key={cell?.id}>
                                        {flexRender(
                                            cell?.column?.columnDef?.cell,
                                            cell?.getContext(),
                                        )}
                                    </td>
                                ))}
                            </tr>
                        ))}
                    </tbody>
                </table>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

> In the `<RecentSales />` component, we are using a `useTable()` hook, which is a high level hook provided by **refine**'s **React Table** supported `@refinedev/react-table` package. It queries the `/orders` end point and implements a table with filtering and sorting features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `<RecentSales />` component, we are using a `useTable()` hook, which is a high level hook provided by **refine**'s **React Table** supported `@refinedev/react-table` package. It queries the `/orders` endpoint and implements a table with filtering and sorting features.
```

                    data={memoizedNewCustomersData}
                    colors={{
                        stroke: "rgb(76, 175, 80)",
                        fill: "rgba(54, 162, 235, 0.2)",
                    }}
                />
            ),
        },
    ];

    return (
        <>
            <Stats
                dailyRevenue={dailyRevenue}
                dailyOrders={dailyOrders}
                newCustomers={newCustomers}
            />
            <TabView tabs={tabs} />
            {/*highlight-next-line*/}
            <RecentSales />
        </>
    );
};
```

</details>

<br/>

With all these updates, we have completed implementing the dashboard page. It now looks like this:

 <div className="centered-image">
   <img style={{alignSelf:"center"}}  src="https://refine.ams3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/2023-09-06-daisy-ui-panel/recent_last.png"  alt="react admin panel daisy ui" />
</div>

<br/>

## Adding CRUD Pages

Having completed the dashboard page above, in this section, we'll add CRUD pages for `products` and `categories` resources. We'll start implementing the pages for `products` resource first.

## Product Pages

> We want `list`, `create`, `edit` and `show` pages for `products`. Since we are using **refine**'s headless core without any supported UI library, it helps if we use the **Inferencer** to generate the pages for us. We'll leverage the power of **refine**'s `<HeadlessInferencer />` component in the CRUD pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want `list`, `create`, `edit` and `show` pages for the `products`. Since we are using **refine**'s headless core without any supported UI library, it helps if we use the **Inferencer** to generate the pages for us. We'll leverage the power of **refine**'s `<HeadlessInferencer />` component in the CRUD pages.
```

                            <Route path="/products">
                                <Route index element={<ProductList />} />
                                <Route
                                    path="create"
                                    element={<ProductCreate />}
                                />
                                <Route
                                    path="edit/:id"
                                    element={<ProductEdit />}
                                />
                                <Route
                                    path="show/:id"
                                    element={<ProductShow />}
                                />
                            </Route>
                            {/*highlight-end*/}
                            <Route path="*" element={<ErrorComponent />} />
                        </Route>
                    </Routes>

                    <RefineKbar />
                    <UnsavedChangesNotifier />
                    <DocumentTitleHandler />
                </Refine>
            </RefineKbarProvider>
        </BrowserRouter>
    );
}

export default App;
```

</details>

> Notice towards the top, that we have imported the scaffolded components (the ones with `<HeadlessInferencer />` component, not yet the actual page code). Towards the end, we assigned them to `/products` paths for defining the routes. Routine **React Router DOM** stuff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice towards the top that we have imported the scaffolded components (the ones with `<HeadlessInferencer />` component, not yet the actual page code). Towards the end, we assigned them to `/products` paths for defining the routes. Routine **React Router DOM** stuff.
```

**refine** maps resource paths to page components via route definitions, and using the map infers the resource name of a page at the current URL of the browser. That way, hooks like `useTable()` and `useNavigation()`, and **Inferencer** components like `<HeadlessInferencer />` are always able to infer the default resource name from inside a resource page.

You can find more information about [resources and routing](https://refine.dev/docs/tutorial/understanding-resources/index/#resources-and-routes) on the **refine** documentation.

Now when we navigate along the `/products` paths, we can see some clumsy looking pages in need of proper styling. So, we're interested in getting their code and modifying them according to our needs. We are going to do that one by one in the following sections.

### `<ProductList />` Page

To begin with, the scaffolded `<ProductList />` component looks like this:

```tsx title="src/pages/products/list.tsx"
import { IResourceComponentsProps } from "@refinedev/core";
import { HeadlessInferencer } from "@refinedev/inferencer/headless";

export const ProductList: React.FC<IResourceComponentsProps> = () => {
    return <HeadlessInferencer />;
};
```

> The `<HeadlessInferencer />` infers the resource name and action path from the resource and routes definitions based on the current URL of the browser. It then polls the **Fine Foods** `/products` end point to figure out the data shape and based on the shape uses necessary refine-React Table APIs and JSX markup to present the fetched data in a table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<HeadlessInferencer />` infers the resource name and action path from the resource and routes definitions based on the current URL of the browser. It then polls the **Fine Foods** `/products` end point to figure out the data shape, and based on the shape, it uses the necessary refine-React Table APIs and JSX markup to present the fetched data in a table.
```

                        {getState().pagination.pageIndex + 1} / {getPageCount()}{" "}
                    </strong>
                </span>
                <span>
                    | Go to Page:{" "}
                    <input
                        type="number"
                        defaultValue={getState().pagination.pageIndex + 1}
                        onChange={(e) => {
                            const page = e.target.value
                                ? Number(e.target.value) - 1
                                : 0;
                            setPageIndex(page);
                        }}
                    />
                </span> <select
                    value={getState().pagination.pageSize}
                    onChange={(e) => {
                        setPageSize(Number(e.target.value));
                    }}
                >
                    {[10, 20, 30, 40, 50].map((pageSize) => (
                        <option key={pageSize} value={pageSize}>
                            Show {pageSize}
                        </option>
                    ))}
                </select>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

> The generated code implements a handful of features including data fetching, button actions, pagination and JSX markup with minimal styles for presenting the data in a table. Pretty much the skeleton of what we want in a table of data that we want to improve with daisyUI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated code implements a handful of features, including data fetching, button actions, pagination, and JSX markup with minimal styles for presenting the data in a table. This is pretty much the skeleton of what we want in a table of data that we want to improve with daisyUI.
```

                        disabled={!getCanNextPage()}
                    >
                        {">"}
                    </button>
                    <button
                        className="join-item btn btn-sm btn-ghost"
                        onClick={() => setPageIndex(getPageCount() - 1)}
                        disabled={!getCanNextPage()}
                    >
                        {">>"}
                    </button>
                </div>
                <select
                    className="mx-2 p-1 border rounded"
                    value={getState()?.pagination?.pageSize}
                    onChange={(e) => {
                        setPageSize(Number(e.target.value));
                    }}
                >
                    {[10, 25, 50].map((pageSize) => (
                        <option
                            className="border rounded"
                            key={pageSize}
                            value={pageSize}
                        >
                            {pageSize}
                        </option>
                    ))}
                </select>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

> It is definitely possible to refactor the component into smaller, testable ones. However, for the purpose of the tutorial, we'll try to keep things inside the same page as much as possible. As done below, this will give us the scope to rather focus on explaining the code easily part by part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is definitely possible to refactor the components into smaller, testable ones. However, for the purpose of the tutorial, we'll try to keep things on the same page as much as possible. As done below, this will give us the scope to rather focus on explaining the code easily, part by part.
```

**1. Data Fetching and Processing**

The [`useTable()`](https://refine.dev/docs/packages/documentation/react-table/#basic-usage) hook from the `@refinedev/react-table` package is used to fetch data from the **Fine Foods** `/products` endpoint. The refine-React Table's `useTable()` hook is a higher level hook built on top of **refine**'s core [`useTable()`](https://refine.dev/docs/api-reference/core/hooks/useTable/) hook provided by `@refinedev/core`. It combines the power of `useTable()` core hook with React Table's [`useReactTable()`](https://tanstack.com/table/v8/docs/api/core/table) APIs:

```tsx
// Inside ProductList component

const {
    getHeaderGroups,
    getRowModel,
    setOptions,
    refineCore: { filters, setCurrent, setFilters },
    getState,
    setPageIndex,
    getCanPreviousPage,
    getPageCount,
    getCanNextPage,
    nextPage,
    previousPage,
    setPageSize,
} = useTable({
    columns,
});
```

> Notice that we are passing **React Table** column definitions, the `columns` object, to `useTable()` hook and grabbing all necessary table props. We are destructuring the table related data with `getRowModel` and `getHeaderGroups` methods and presenting them inside the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that we are passing **React Table** column definitions, the `columns` object, to `useTable()` hook and grabbing all necessary table props. We are destructuring the table related data with the `getRowModel` and `getHeaderGroups` methods and presenting them inside the table.
```

> We are making use of pagination props such as `setPageIndex`, `getPageCount`, `previousPage` returned by `useReactTable()` to build the client side pagination strip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are making use of pagination props such as `setPageIndex`, `getPageCount`, and previousPage` returned by `useReactTable()` to build the client side pagination strip.
```

                <button
                    className="btn btn-xs btn-circle btn-ghost m-1"
                    onClick={() => {
                        show("products", getValue() as string);
                    }}
                >
                    <ShowIcon />
                </button>
                <button
                    className="btn btn-xs btn-circle btn-ghost m-1"
                    onClick={() => {
                        deleteProduct({
                            resource: "products",
                            id: getValue() as string,
                        });
                    }}
                >
                    <DeleteIcon />
                </button>
            </div>
        );
    },
},
```

Notice also, we are using the [`useNavigation()`](https://refine.dev/docs/api-reference/core/hooks/navigation/useNavigation/) core hook to pick the `show()` and `edit()` methods and use them inside the buttons to navigate to their respective routes:

```tsx
const { edit, show, create } = useNavigation();
```

Near the top, we're using the `create()` method inside the `Create` button that leads to the `<ProductCreate />` page.

**3. daisyUI Styles**

> Throughout the component, we are using short daisyUI classes that come handy for styling our components. We are using `btn` and its derived classes such as `btn-sm`, `btn-primary`, `btn-ghost`, `btn-circle` and `btn-outline` to style our buttons. For the table, we are using `table` and `table-zebra`. For grouping elements, we are using `join` and `join-items`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout the component, we are using short daisyUI classes that come in handy for styling our components. We are using `btn` and its derived classes such as `btn-sm`, `btn-primary`, `btn-ghost`, `btn-circle` and `btn-outline` to style our buttons. For the table, we are using `table` and `table-zebra`. For grouping elements, we are using `join` and `join-items`.
```

Notice throughout the markup that we are able to seamlessly apply regular Tailwind Flex, responsive and spacing classes as well. We can also use them to customize the styles of the elements that are already using the component classes.

With these changes, when we navigate to the `/products` route, our products list page looks like below:

 <div className="centered-image">
   <img style={{alignSelf:"center"}}  src="https://refine.ams3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/2023-09-06-daisy-ui-panel/products.png"  alt="react admin panel daisy ui" />
</div>

<br/>

### `<ProductCreate />` Page

> We have already scaffolded the `<ProductCreate />` component using the **Inferencer**. Following the same process described for `<ProductList />`, we can get the code for `<ProductCreate />` component from the page at `/products/create`. We won't get into the detailed steps here, as moving ahead you can repeat the process of getting the page code from the modal at all action routes. You can then make necessary adjustments and come up with the final code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have already scaffolded the `<ProductCreate />` component using the **Inferencer**. Following the same process described for `<ProductList />`, we can get the code for `<ProductCreate />` component from the page at `/products/create`. We won't get into the detailed steps here, as moving ahead, you can repeat the process of getting the page code from the modal at all action routes. You can then make the necessary adjustments and come up with the final code.
```

                </div>
                <div className="flex justify-end items-center my-6">
                    <input
                        className="btn btn-primary btn-sm normal-case text-xl text-zinc-50 font-normal"
                        type="submit"
                        value="Save"
                    />
                </div>
            </form>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

Here's the break down of the component:

**1. Data Fetching and Form Management**

The most significant part of the product `create` page lies in the use of the [`useForm()`](https://refine.dev/docs/packages/documentation/react-hook-form/useForm/) hook imported from `@refinedev/react-hook-form` supplementary package. The refine-React Hook Form `useForm()` hook combines the power of the `useForm()` **refine** core hook that primarily handles form submission, data fetching, caching, state management and serverside error handling. Integrating `react-hook-form` augments form features to include better form fields state management and error handling.

```ts
const {
    refineCore: { onFinish },
    register,
    handleSubmit,
    formState: { errors },
} = useForm();
```

> We are grabbing the `onFinish` object returned from the **refine** core and passing it to React Hook Form's `handleSubmit()` submission handler which upon submission passes the field values to `dataProvider.create()` method under the hood. Notice we are registering the fields with React Hook Form's `register()` method for controlling the fields and emitting error messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are grabbing the `onFinish` object returned from the **refine** core and passing it to React Hook Form's `handleSubmit()` submission handler which upon submission passes the field values to the `dataProvider.create()` method under the hood. Notice we are registering the fields with React Hook Form's `register()` method for controlling the fields and emitting error messages.
```

> Notice, we are not passing any resource name to `useForm()`. Like `useTable()`, it is inferred from the current URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that we are not passing any resource name to `useForm()`. Like `useTable()`, it is inferred from the current URL.
```

We are also using the `useSelect()` core hook to fetch and populate `categories` items to present inside `<select />` fields.

More on the [`useSelect()` hook in the refine docs here](https://refine.dev/docs/api-reference/core/hooks/useSelect/#defaultvalue).

**2. daisyUI Style**

We are using form related daisyUI style classes such as `form-control`, `input`, `textarea` and their variations like `input-sm`, `input-bordered`, `textarea-bordered`, etc.

> Inside the `App.css` file, we are still able to compose smaller class names from longer ones. For exmaple, `page-container` and `page-title` are custom composed resusable classes that help reduce some Tailwind spaghetti strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the `App.css` file, we are still able to compose smaller class names from longer ones. For example, `page-container` and `page-title` are custom composed reusable classes that help reduce some Tailwind spaghetti strings.
```

> With the above `<ProductCreate />` page, when we navigate to `/products/create` route, we should be presented with a form to create a product:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the above `<ProductCreate />` page, when we navigate to the `/products/create` route, we should be presented with a form to create a product:
```

                        <div>{record?.category?.title ?? "Loading..."}</div>
                    </div>
                    <div className="mb-2">
                        <h5 className="mb-1 font-bold">Description</h5>
                        <div>{record?.description ?? "Loading..."}</div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

In the code above, we are using the [`useShow()`](https://refine.dev/docs/api-reference/core/hooks/show/useShow/) hook and grabbing product details from the `queryResult` object to display the details in the JSX.

We are also invoking the familiar `useNavigation()` hook to access the `edit()` and `list()` methods and call them from `Edit` and back buttons respectively.

With the `<ProductShow />` page completed, when we navigate to the `/products/show/:id` path, we can see the product details as below:

 <div className="centered-image">
   <img style={{alignSelf:"center"}}  src="https://refine.ams3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/2023-09-06-daisy-ui-panel/product_show.png"  alt="react admin panel daisy ui" />
</div>

<br/>

> This also means, we can navigate back and forth to edit and show pages of a product item from the list page. Or open the create page to create new products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also means we can navigate back and forth to edit and show pages of a product item from the list page. Or open the `create` page to create new products.
```

## Category Pages

> The category pages are very similar to product pages. So, I'll quickly add their final versions. You can copy paste directly and used them in your files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The category pages are very similar to the product pages. So, I'll quickly add their final versions. You can copy and paste them directly and use them in your files.
```

Or alternatively, if you want to make your way through generating the code with **Inferencer**s, please feel free to do so.

> Run the following **Inferencer** command anyway to produce the scaffold pages inside `src/pages/categories/` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following **Inferencer** command anyway to produce the scaffold pages inside the `src/pages/categories/` directory:
```

                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

After all these changes for the `category` resource, we should be able to navigate across the category pages as below:

 <div className="centered-image">
   <img style={{alignSelf:"center"}}  src="https://refine.ams3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/2023-09-06-daisy-ui-panel/layout-gif.gif"  alt="react admin panel daisy ui" />
</div>

<br/>

## Update the Layout

In this section, we'll customize the app layout for a top navbar menu with icons for each item. In **refine**, the `<Layout />` component is passed to the topmost `<Route />` element, meaning it becomes a common partial to all pages:

```tsx title="App.tsx"
<Refine>
    <Routes>
        {/*highlight-start*/}
        <Route
            element={
                <Layout>
                    <Outlet />
                </Layout>
            }
        >
            {/*highlight-end*/}
            <Route path="*" element={<ErrorComponent />} />
        </Route>
    </Routes>
</Refine>
```

### The Layout Component

Currently, the layout places the navigation menu to the left of the page. We want to move it to the top as a navbar.

> To begin with, we'll remove **refine**'s `layout` class from there and add some Tailwind classes to move the items to top. At `src/components/layout/index.tsx`, make it look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin with, we'll remove **refine**'s `layout` class from there and add some Tailwind classes to move the items to the top. At `src/components/layout/index.tsx`, make it look like this:
```

                            </Route>
                            <Route path="/categories">
                                <Route index element={<CategoryList />} />
                                <Route
                                    path="create"
                                    element={<CategoryCreate />}
                                />
                                <Route
                                    path="edit/:id"
                                    element={<CategoryEdit />}
                                />
                                <Route
                                    path="show/:id"
                                    element={<CategoryShow />}
                                />
                            </Route>
                            <Route path="*" element={<ErrorComponent />} />
                        </Route>
                    </Routes>
                    <RefineKbar />
                    <UnsavedChangesNotifier />
                    <DocumentTitleHandler />
                </Refine>
            </RefineKbarProvider>
        </BrowserRouter>
    );
}

export default App;
```

</details>

> Adding icons to `resources` make them available to menu items as well as breadcrumbs. So, now we'll update the `<Menu />` and `<Breadcrumb />` components with icons and daisyUI styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding icons to `resources` makes them available for menu items as well as breadcrumbs. So, now we'll update the `<Menu />` and `<Breadcrumb />` components with icons and daisyUI styles.
```

Change the `<Menu />` component to the below code:

<details>

<summary>src/components/menu/index.tsx</summary>

```tsx title="src/components/menu/index.tsx"
import { useMenu } from "@refinedev/core";
import { NavLink } from "react-router-dom";

export const Menu = () => {
    const { menuItems } = useMenu();

    return (
        <nav className="sticky top-0 z-50 menu mx-0 bg-white">
            <ul className="mx-0 flex justify-start items-center">
                {menuItems.map((item) => (
                    <li
                        key={item?.key}
                        className="mx-0 flex justify-start items-center"
                    >
                        <div className="text-gray-600">
                            <NavLink
                                className="text-lg flex items-center"
                                to={item?.route}
                            >
                                <span className="mr-2">{item?.icon}</span>
                                {item?.label}
                            </NavLink>
                        </div>
                    </li>
                ))}
            </ul>
        </nav>
    );
};
```

</details>

> Notice now, we are displaying an icon beside each menu item and we are also using the daisyUI `menu` class to style the menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice now that we are displaying an icon beside each menu item and we are also using the daisyUI `menu` class to style the menu.
```

Then update `<Breadcrumb />` component to look like below:

<details>

<summary>src/components/breadcrumb/index.tsx</summary>

```tsx title="src/components/breadcrumb/index.tsx"
import { useBreadcrumb } from "@refinedev/core";
import { Link } from "react-router-dom";

export const Breadcrumb = () => {
    const { breadcrumbs } = useBreadcrumb();

    if (breadcrumbs.length == 1) return null;

    return (
        <div className="text-sm breadcrumbs">
            <ul className="my-2">
                {breadcrumbs?.map((breadcrumb) => {
                    return (
                        <li key={`breadcrumb-${breadcrumb?.label}`}>
                            <span className="mx-2">{breadcrumb?.icon}</span>
                            {breadcrumb?.href ? (
                                <Link to={breadcrumb?.href}>
                                    {breadcrumb?.label}
                                </Link>
                            ) : (
                                <span>{breadcrumb?.label}</span>
                            )}
                        </li>
                    );
                })}
            </ul>
        </div>
    );
};
```

</details>

> Notice here also, we are displaying the icons beside the resource name in each breadcrumb. We are using daisyUI `breadcrumbs` class to style the elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice also that we are displaying the icons beside the resource name in each breadcrumb. We are using the daisyUI `breadcrumbs` class to style the elements.
```

> With these changes, we should now see a sticky top navbar with items that gives access to all the resource list pages. Also breadcrumbs should show up along a resource path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these changes, we should now see a sticky top navbar with items that give access to all the resource list pages. Also, breadcrumbs should show up along a resource path:
```

We generated CRUD pages with the **Inferencer** tool, and we went ahead to further customize them according to our needs. We styled them conveniently with short, semantic, component ready classes offered by daisyUI. We also felt the need to use regular Tailwind Flex, color, size, shape and responsive utility classes, and found that daisyUI offers such flexibility out-of-the-box.

We saw that **refine** brings the power of **React Hook Form** into its pages with its supplementary `@refinedev/react-form-hook` package that helps effortlessly manage data fetching, form state, caching and error handling in a CRUD application with the `useForm()` hook. We found that daisyUI can fit in seamlessly among all to build enterprise level data-heavy applications like admin panels, dashboards and other internal tools.

> We have initially dashed, frequently dazed and finally established an admin panel by getting refine.d.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We initially dashed, frequently dazed, and finally established an admin panel by getting refine.d.
```
